[MUSIC] So I want to spend a little bit more
time on the details of MapReduce versus relational databases beyond just
how the query processing happens. We saw that parallel query
processing is largely the same. Many of the algorithms
are shared between and there's a ton of details here that
I'm not gonna have time to go over. But the takeaway is that
the basic strategy for performing parallel processing
is the same between them. But there's other features that
relational databases have and I've listed some of them here. So we've mentioned declarative
query languages, and we've mentioned that those start to
show up in Pig and especially HIVE. Now there's a notion of a schema in
a relational database that we didn't talk too much about but
this is a structure on your data that is enforced at the time of data
being presented to the system. So any data does not conform to
the schema can be rejected automatically by the database. This is a pretty good idea because
it helps keep your data clean. It’s not real feasible in many contexts,
because the data's fundamentally dirty and so saying that you have to clean it up
before you are allowed to process it, just isn't gonna fly, right? And so this is one of the reasons why
MapReduce is attractive, is it doesn't require that you enforce a schema before
you're allowed to work with the data. However, it doesn't mean the schemas
are a bad idea when they're available. And, in fact, really, even with MapReduce,
a schema's really there, it's just that it's hidden
inside the application. So when you read a record, you're assuming that the first element in
the record is gonna be an integer, and the second record is gonna be a date, and
the third record is gonna be a string. So that schema's really present. It's just present in your code as opposed
to pushed down into the system itself. And there's a lot of great, empirical
evidence over the years that suggest it's better to push it down into the data
itself when and where possible. And in fact, you're starting to see this. So HIVE and Pig, again,
have some notion of schema, as does DryadLINQ as does
some emerging systems. There's a system called Hadapt that
I won't talk about really at all but combined, sort of, Hadoop level
query processing for parallelism and then on the individual nodes there's
a relational database operating. And one of the reasons, among many,
is to have access to schema constraints. Logical data independence,
this actually you don't see quite so much, this is the notion of Views right? Does the system support views or not, and
you haven't seen quite as many instances of Hadoop like systems that support
views but I predict they'll be coming. Indexing is another one. So we talked about how to make things
scalable, that one way to do it is to derive these indexes to support sort
of logarithmic time access to data. That's not available in vanilla MapReduce. Every time you write MapReduce job, you're gonna touch every
single record on the input. You're not gonna be able to zoom right
in to a particular record of interest. That's wasteful and it was recognized to
be wasteful and so one of the solutions. You see people adding indexing features
to Hadoop and Hbase is an open source implementation of another proposal by
Google for a system called Big Table. That among other things, provides kind
of quick access to individual records. And Hbase is designed to be sort
of compatible with Hadoop, and so now you can design your system
to get the best of both worlds. Okay, so you can get some indexing along
with your MapReduce style programming interface. And once again I'll mention
Hadapt here as well. One of the motivations for Hadapt is to be able to provide
indexing on the individual nodes. Okay, fine, so
I'll skip caching materialized views. So this is the same as logical data
independence except you can actually pre-generate the views as opposed to
evaluate them all at run time but we're not going into too much about that. And then transactions which
I'll talk about in a couple of segments in the context of NoSQL. So databases are very good at
transactions, they were thrown out the window, among other things, in this
kind of context of MapReduce and NoSQL. And they're starting to come back. But remember, what MapReduce did provide
was very, very high scalability. So this 1,000 machines and up. And it also provided this
notion of fault tolerance. So relational databases didn't really
treat fault tolerance this way. They were unbelievably good at recovery. Because of this notion of transactions, if you were operating on the database and
everything went kaput. Given some time,
it would figure everything out and recover, and you can be guaranteed
to have lost no data, okay? That's fine, but that's not the same
thing as saying, during query processing, while a single query is running,
what if something goes wrong? Do I always have to start back
over from the beginning, or not? And it's sort of the implicit assumption
with relation of database as well, that you're query's aren't taking long
enough for that to really matter. But in the era of big data
of massive data analytics, of course you have query's that
are running from many, many hours, right? And so, having to restart those and
of course their running on many, many machines where failures
are bound to happen. And so that context is something that
MapReduce sort of really motivated, and now you see modern parallel databases capturing some of those in a fault
tolerance in general, okay? So, these are a partial list of
contributions from relational databases, and this is a partial
list of contributions, maybe a complete list of
contributions from MapReduce. And my point is that you see a lot
of mixing and matching going on. The design space is being
more fully explored. It used to be sort of all about relational
databases with their choice in the design space, and then MapReduce kinda
rebooted that a little bit, and now you see kind of a more fluid mix cuz
people started cherry-picking features. Okay, fine. And then the last one I guess
I didn't talk about here is, what I think was really, really powerful
about MapReduce is it turned the army of Java programmers that are out there, into
distributive systems programmers, right? A mere mortal Java programmer could all of
a sudden be productive processing hundreds of terabytes without necessarily having to
learn anything about distributive systems. That was really, really powerful, right? I mean, you had to become a database
expert to be able to use these things. Okay, and so I think that impact
is hard to overstate, right? The ability for one person to get work
done that used to require a team and six months of work was significant. [MUSIC]