[MUSIC] What happens in the magic shuffle phase? Well, everything with the same
key gets lumped together, as we talked about, and so
now you get a reducer invocation, that has one reducer invocation for
every unique key. So in this case, it'd be one for
999 and so on, and one for 777 so on. And the list of values
associated with that key will be all the tuples that
share the same join key. Now, it doesn't matter what relation they
came from, they'll all be in this list. So in this case we get one tuple
from the Employee relation, and we get one tuple from
the Department relation. And here we get one tuple from
the Employee relation and we get two tuples from
the Department relation, right? And so now,
in the context of a single computer, we have everything we
need to compute the join. And, further, each one of these reduce invocations
can be done on a separate machine. Okay. And that's how we scale. So now this reduce function that
the program would have to write if you're implementing a join phase
would have to take this key, and take all these tuples,
and produce the joined tuple, right, where these two
attributes came from Employee, and these two attributes
came from Department. And same thing here. Employee. Department. Now, if you wanna think about what kind
of operation you need to implement in this reduce function, well, you've got
a set of tuples from one relation and you need to associate it with every
possible tuple from the other relation, right, because we know they all join, by definition they all join, they all
have the same key, they all match. So, if you have every members of the set
paired with every possible member of another set, if you remember,
that's a cross product operation. And so here again we see relational
algebra popping up sort of in a different context. Okay.
So I don’t want to confuse you too much, but the overall operation we're trying
to do is implement a parallel join. It happens to be that locally, right here
inside one reduce function, we recognize, aha, that's another relational
algebra operator cross product, but this is more for abstraction
purposes than for algorithm purposes. Just wanted to point that out, all right. So again, you put on your
relational algebra colored glasses, and these operators start to
pop up everywhere, all right. So fine, so let's do this one more
time just to make sure it's clear. So I'm giving you two relations,
Order and LineItem. And they have these fields,
an orderid, an account, and a date. And here there's an orderid,
and itemid, and a qty. And we're gonna join on orderid. So what's the map phase look like? Well, once again, the key will be
the join key, in this case, orderid. And the value will be this pair, the relation name along
with the original tuple. And before we just sort of lumped
these together in one tuple, and it doesn't matter very much. Here, I've kind of structured
it slightly differently, but the point is that all of
the information is here. The key must be the join key,
and the value is the tuple, as well as some sort of indicator
of what relation it came from. In fact, maybe I'll ask real quick, why
do I need that indicator of the relation? Well, in the reduce phase, I wouldn't be
able to produce the joined tuples properly if I didn't know which tuples
went with which relations, if I just had a big bundle of tuples and I
couldn't really figure it out very easily, that would be a problem. Theoretically, you might be able to avoid
tagging explicitly with Employee and Department because you could deduce that,
well, the Employee table was the one that has a string first,
followed by the join key, and the Department relation has the join
key followed by some other string. But it's a little dangerous to rely
on that kind of information cuz you could be joining two tables that
have exactly the same schema and there wouldn't be a real
obvious way to figure it out. So an explicit tag is
a little bit safer here. So that's the map phase. We lump all the records together and
produce key-value pairs where the key is the join key from
the corresponding relation, join attribute from
the corresponding relation, and the value is the entire tuple
tagged with the relation name. [MUSIC]