[MUSIC] So you combine these two
notions together and you get the definition of
PageRank as it was published. And there's a couple of variations on
this, but this is the one to know. So, while not converged, the rank of a vertex A is the sum of all the ranks
of the vertices that link to A, but each one is divided by
the total number of outgoing edges. So in this notation, we assume that
there are edges, B linking to A, C linking to A, D linking to A, and PR(A),
the PageRank of a vertex X is going to be the page rank of the vertex X, L(X)
is the number of outgoing links from X. And so, we take the page rank of B and
divide by the number out outgoing links away from B, take the page rank of C,
divide by the number of algorithm links away from C and so on, add all that up and
that's all the contribution to A. And then we multiply by a damping
factor to make sure that what we pass on diminishes over time as
we get further and further away. And then this other term in this
expression is just to ensure that all the ranks sum up to 1 so that we can
sort of interpret them as probabilities. And in fact, you can directly
interpret this as a probability, which is another way of looking at
PageRank and deriving PageRank is to take random walks around the Internet,
around the graph, right? So you start on a random vertex and
just start walking. Make a choice at random among the edges,
the outgoing edges, and just traverse around. Well, if you do this a bunch of times, you
can derive how likely it is that you'll spend time on some particular vertex
versus some other particular vertex, and that will exactly be the PageRank. And so this is all roads lead
back to Wikipedia or CNN or some other very important
vertex in the web graph. So that's PageRank and what I wanted
to point out before we move on is just the relative simplicity of this,
right? It really comes out of an intuitive
notion of trying to figure out how can we measure the importance
of a vertex in the graph and so you start with very simple notions of,
well, maybe important means just the one with the highest number
of edges that link to it. Well, there's some problems with that so
let's see if we can fix it. Maybe it's the one with the most number
of paths that go through it, and we really don't care about all paths, we
care about shortest paths, so that gives you another notion of importance and you
say well, that's got some problems too. What are the properties
we really want here? Well maybe it kind of captures
the importance of your friends needs to be added in there somehow. And you can sort of walk through this and
come up with where PageRank came from. So the way it's presented just like a lot
of these things are presented in terms of a finished formula and then you have to kind of work out,
reverse engineer where it came from. But a lot of these things
are developed very intuitively and the formula is only used as a notion to
express the intuition in a precise way. [MUSIC]