[MUSIC] So what's the data model here? So there's four types involved here and one is the atom which is just a primitive,
an integer, string and so on. And then there's three
different collection types. All right, the first is a tuple
which is a sequence of fields, and every field can be of any type,
they need not be atoms. Then there's a bag which is
a collection of tuples, always tuples. But those tuples need not be the same
type, so this is different than a table, different than a relation. And it's a bag not a set and I can ask you what's the difference
between a bag and a set? Well, a bag allows duplicates. And then the third type is a map, which is a little confusing when
we're talking about MapReduce, but this is a dictionary in Python, string
literal keys mapped to any other type. Okay, so let's look at an example of this. What is this thing? Well, depends on my notation, I guess. But assuming that you don't mind my
angle brackets referring to tuple, then you can see that this outer thing
is a tuple and it has three fields. It has a integer, which is just an atom, and then it has this thing,
which is a bag. The curly braces I'm gonna
use to indicate bag. And then it's got this thing. Excuse me. Which is a map, a dictionary, that has just one element in it, mapping
the key apache to the value search. Okay, so let's name these guys F1,
F2, and F3, and we'll point out in a couple of slides
where those names can come from. There's a few different
places they can come from and I'll point out one of
those sources soon but right now just assume that we have them. Okay, so let's consider these
expressions over this type. So we can write $0. And what that means is, give me
the first field in the tuple, okay? So in this case it's just the number 1. We can also access it by name,
so if we access F2 that will give us the second field just
because we gave it that explicit name. There's nothing magic about F,
nothing magic about 2. And that'll give us a bag
with these values in it. By the way, we should say what
are the elements of this bag? Well, they're tuples
with two integers each. Okay.
Now you can also access F2 to give me, so what does this expression do? Well F2 gives me the bag. And then you can write .$0 and
I don't love this notation, it's a bit of an abuse of notation,
but what it means is for every element of the bag,
project out the first element. And so this will give me another bag but
it only has 2 and 4 and 5. It has the zeroth element of every tuple. Okay. Then you've got this magic hash symbol
here which means find me the value associated with the key
I'm about to provide. So look at F3 which is the third field and
hash into it and give me the key apache. If it's not a map you're going to get
an error, but in this case it is a map so what gets returned is the atom search. Okay, and you can also write functions,
you can say sum up all of these values. And this expression is
the same one we saw here, which will be a sequence of integers. And so that'll give you 2+4+5. Okay, and there's a few other ways
to sort of manipulate these things, but the first thing to notice is
that this is non relational, right? You've got this nested data structure and
you've got a few different data types. [MUSIC]