[MUSIC] So we can also measure the connectivity
coefficient of a graph as a structural analysis task. So this is the minimum number
of vertices you need to remove that will disconnect the graph. And so you can think of this intuitively
as a sense of the measure of the fragility of the graph, right? How much redundancy is built into it? So if you're designing a network and it
turns out the connectivity coefficient of the graph is one, that means that if one,
potentially if one machine goes down you could partition the network
where nobody can communicate. Okay?
So if you're an advertiser you might be interested in a connectivity
coefficient of a graph. If you're trying to reach as many people
as possible, it could be that if a few people don't pay attention to the ads
then a whole bunch of other people won't send a message to viral advertising or
social media advertising, okay? And so remember in the cap theorem
that we discuss in the NoSQL lectures, p was partitioning, right? So this was the,
if your system becomes partitioned, if your network becomes partitioned,
can the systems still function? And so connectivity coefficient could be a
measure to help you estimate how likely it is that your network's
gonna be partitioned. Okay so what is the connectivity
coefficient of this graph? Well it depends on exactly what
we mean by connectivity first. So we can say that two vertices, x and y, are strongly connected if x is reachable
from y and y is reachable from x. Okay we might say that they're just
connected if x is reachable from y or y is reachable from x. And so this is sort of equivalent to
ignoring the directionality of the edges. So if we just assume that
everything is undirected, then we'll be using the second definition. So let's assume that for a second,
let's assume we just mean connected here. Well look if we don't care about
direction of traversing then if we remove e, is the graph disconnected? No, because you can still reach everything
through this other edge up there. And so, the only node here that appears
and not be redundant here is b. And so, if you remove b though,
you'll have two partitions in the network, a and f, and all the other ones here. So, the connectivity coefficient of
this graph is one because we can find a vertex that if we were to move it,
it would be a partition network. Okay. And we already discussed why
you might wanna compute this. So the connectivity coefficient is
a measure of the graph itself and doesn't really give us a way to understand
the relative importance of an individual vertex. And so for this purpose there's been
various notions of centrality defined. So one is the Closeness Centrality
of a vertex, which is the average length of all
the shortest paths that pass through it. All right, so intuitively you can maybe compare
this with the diameter of the graph. If the diameter is long, and the average
length of all the shortest paths that go through a particular vertex is short. The it's not part of the diameter of
the paths that define the diameter of the graph and so some census may be
less central or less important, okay? So another is the between, maybe more
common is the Betweeness Centrality of a vertex and this is the fraction
of all the shortest paths in the whole graph that
pass through this vertex. So if you need to go,
all roads lead through Rome. So if you need to go from Seattle
to Atlanta in the U.S., then perhaps all paths go through one
of two different major highways or one or two cities, the northern route and
the southern or something. And so the between this centrality of
these two intermediate hubs is high. And so if you think about
a public transportation system where all trains lead into some
central hub and then go out again, that central hub will have
a high betweeness centrality. Because the shortest path to get from
point A to point B always goes through this one central vertex, okay? So what is the Betweeness Centrality
of vertex e in this case? Well there's a shortest path
a to b to d to c that we found, the shortest path made
to c goes through there. And the shortest path from a to g, a b e g is three. So if you sort of add all these up you'll
see that e is only involved in a, b, g, g and then a bunch of ones that
are rooted in e itself, e to c and e to g. So the betweenness
centrality of e is three. Or sorry, there are three divided by the total number
of shortest paths in the graph. It's a fraction. [MUSIC]