[MUSIC] What is not amenable to data science? Well, you might think food. And this is a paper in a fairly
respectable journal that applies some data techniques to
analyzing food pairing, okay. And so what they did here is
pretty interesting right? So, induce a graph on
the ingredients by saying that if two ingredients appear together in
a recipe, you draw an edge between them. The graph meaning vertices and edges. And if you're not familiar with graphs,
you will be by the end of the course, but bear with me right now. So connect two ingredients if they
appear together in some recipe, okay. Build that big graph and now you can analyze it in ways that
are similar to what we just talked about. If you can look at
the community structure, you can find the clusters
within this graph, and see if these clusters correspond
to some of the well-known methods of food pairings. Okay?
And in some cases they do and in some cases they don't, and the author
sort of show that they've uncovered things that were not necessarily know, but
appear to be there in the data. Right? And so this data driven approach,
the fact that there's websites full of recipes online has allowed us to put
things on a more quantitative basis, that were previously simply,
old wives tales essentially. Okay.
So I thought that was kind of a fun example of
an unusual use of data science. And again a respectable journal. All right. So another example from the Last FM blog, they looked at the tags associated
with the songs on Last FM, and you should do some simple analysis of
the emergence of genres over time. But based on the popularity of the tags or
songs coming from that time. And so you see things like well,
post punk in red here, came after punk in purple, which you'd
hope the graph shows that you'd expect. You'd also see some,
kind of a rise here in, Rock and roll over time, and
then maybe a bit of a dip more recently. And so this is kind of interesting. But the other theme here we have is,
that we mentioned in the previous segment, is repurposing data, right? So this data was collected simply to help
with search, find similar music, and it's now being reused to sort of draw
inferences about the emergence of entire genres, okay? So another here that you may be familiar
with, Google was able to show that by analyzing the search logs,
the frequency of search terms, It could do a better job
predicting the severity and the scope of flu outbreaks then
the Center for Disease Control. And by better here we mean
essentially earlier, right. I was able to give more of a head start to the health community. Okay, and
also it was sort of more accurate. So how do they do this? Well, when you're getting the flu,
turns out that you want to search for flu symptoms, terms associated
with flu symptoms more often. And by watching that uptick, you can predict that there's
a deadly flu outbreak is coming. Okay? So that's great, and this worked and
they sort of publish a paper about it, and then they put up this
interactive visualization for a lot of people to sort of analyze
the flu outbreak going forward. But just this year, you know, some folks showed that It didn't do
a very good job in this last year. So scientific hindsight shows
that the Google flu trends far overstated this year's flu season. And the reason that they
think explains this, is that there was lots of media attention
associated with this year's flu season, because it was a bit of an up tick,
and so It got amplified, and so this caused people to search for
flu related terms more often. Perhaps because they're worried
about experiencing the symptoms, perhaps, because they are to
understand more about the flu outbreak. Perhaps, because they're searching for
articles. Perhaps, because they're
worried about their kids more. But it was a second order effect based on
the immediate attention on the problem which led to skewed results and
ultimately a wrong answer. And so the point here is, this is great
that they're repurposing data from the search engine to try to make
predictions about something else, but it's biased data and so you have to be
careful with what you conclude from it. Okay, so there are limits here.